Ramone/tools 1912 (#37)
HorizenOfficial/evm-documentation: docs/build.md

Because you used TypeScript, the compile task also generates TypeScript bindings using [TypeChain](https://www.npmjs.com/package/typechain).

## Build a dApp locally

*Learn how to set up a local environment or a local Yuma testnet node to build a dApp (decentralized application).*

In this section, you will accomplish the following:

* Deploy an existing dApp into a local environment or Yuma Testnet
* Run a private instance of EON 

> The easiest way to deploy a dApp is to use **Docker**. The EON client will be running in a Dockerized container. See **Node Client** below.

Reviewer: Can we link `**Node Client**` to the section below : `/docs/build#node-client` ?

Horizen Labs provides two separate projects to enable:

* **SANDBOX:** creating a personal sandboxed blockchain 
* **TESTNET:** starting your EON node

For using a **personal sandboxed blockchain**, there is no required configuration. A local and disposable sidechain will be created from scratch with the latest available version of EON. Check the **.env** file for the port you will use for RPC calls. 

> Horizen Labs repositories are open source, including EON. The code can be pulled from the GitHub repository and executed, however this is not considered in the scope of the testnet documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Horizen Labs repositories are open source, including EON. The code can be pulled from the GitHub repository and executed. However, this is not considered in the scope of the testnet documentation. 
```

> **Note:** EON is considered a sample application of what can be built using our Sidechains-SDK, that’s why you will find it in the same repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** EON is considered a sample application of what can be built using our Sidechains-SDK, which is why you will find it in the same repository.
```

At the time of this writing, EON is not finalized. It is recommended to use the **M3-V2** tag.  

### Node Client

> To start your node, run our Docker compose (a tool required to run our multi-container application) on your computer. Next, open a terminal and send some simple commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start your node, run our Docker compose (a tool required to run our multi-container application) on your computer. Next, open a terminal and execute some simple commands.
```

#### Set Up

> 1. Remove any previous version of Docker including any Docker-compose plugin before starting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove any previous version of Docker including any Docker-compose plugins before starting.
```

2. Install Docker, the Docker-compose plugin, bc (arbitrary precision calculator language) and jq (a command-line JSON processor), using the following commands:

```
sudo apt update
```
```
sudo apt install -y bc jq pwgen
```
Install Docker and Docker-compose (**compose v2** is included as plugin with **apt install**)

```
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg
echo \
"deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
$(lsb_release -cs) stable" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list
```
```
apt-get update
```
```
apt-get -y install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-compose-plugin
```

Add a Docker group if it does not exist. If it does exist, make sure its group id (gid) is 999 to sync with the 'infra' user.

```
groupadd -g 999 docker 2>&1 || groupmod -g 999 docker
```

Get **'docker compose'** bash completion.

```
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/docker/cli/master/contrib/completion/bash/docker -o /etc/bash_completion.d/docker
```

> **Note:** Step 2 refers to Ubuntu or almost any Debian-based Linux distro. Check the official documentation for other OS or other kinds of incompatibilities.

Reviewer: Can we link "official documentation"?

3. Clone this Horizen Labs repository using the following command:

**Note:** See the official [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository?tool=cli) for detailed cloning instructions.

```
git clone https://github.com/HorizenLabs/$PROJECT.git
```

Where **$PROJECT** is replaced by one of the following project, depending on what you have decided to run:

* compose-evm-regtest-simplified → for YUMA SANDBOX
* compose-evm-testnet-simplified → for YUMA TESTNET

4. Build the project by using the following command:

```
./scripts/init.sh
```

You are now set, the **client** starts automatically.

> **Note:** YUMA TESTNET requires time to synchronize the entire blockchain. While waiting, check the progress by comparing the last block in the **Yuma Explorer** with the response of the following rpc method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** YUMA TESTNET requires time to synchronize the entire blockchain. While waiting, check the progress by comparing the last block in the **Yuma Explorer** with the response of the following RPC method:
```

```
curl -X POST "http://127.0.0.1:9545/ethv1/" --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_blockNumber","params":[],"id":"test"}' -H "accept: application/json"
```

> **WARNING:** **Risk Data Corruption** - Always shutdown the node properly by executing *shutdown.sh* available in the scripts folder at the end of your testing session and/or before turning off your machine (computer or virtual machine). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**WARNING:** **Risk Data Corruption** - Always shutdown the node properly by executing *shutdown.sh*, available in the scripts folder, at the end of your testing session and/or before turning off your machine (computer or virtual machine). 
```

> **WARNING:** **Risk Data Corruption** - Always shutdown the node properly by executing *shutdown.sh* available in the scripts folder at the end of your testing session and/or before turning off your machine (computer or virtual machine). 

Reviewer 2: small, but `shutdown` should be `shut down`

> ### Run the client

Reviewer 2: `client` should be capitalized

If you have performed the previous setup instructions and you want to restart the client, run the following command at the root folder of the project (inside the cloned repository):

```
docker compose up -d
```

> **WARNING:** **Risk Data Corruption** - Always shutdown the node properly by executing *shutdown.sh* available in the scripts folder at the end of your testing session and/or before turning off your machine (computer or virtual machine). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**WARNING:** **Risk Data Corruption** - Always shutdown the node properly by executing *shutdown.sh*, available in the scripts folder, at the end of your testing session and/or before turning off your machine (computer or virtual machine). 
```

### Configuration
Set up your network provider as **localhost (127.0.0.1)** and **port (9545)**, and also change the **Chain ID** according to the environment you are using.

##### YUMA SANDBOX

```
Network name:  Yuma Sandbox 
New RPC URL:  http://127.0.0.1:9545/ethv1
Chain ID: 1997 
Currency symbol: ZEN

> Block Explorer: leave blank

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Block Explorer: _leave blank_
```

```
**Note:** The **Yuma Explorer** is not available for this sandbox environment.

##### YUMA TESTNET (localhost)

```
Network name:  Yuma Testnet Local
New RPC URL:  http://127.0.0.1:9545/ethv1 
Chain ID: 1662
Currency symbol: ZEN
Block Explorer: https://yuma-explorer.horizen.io/
```

**Note:** For configuring a wallet or network provider with the testnet local node the "RPC Server" must be the **local one (localhost)**. Use the **Chain ID** for  the  corresponding  testnet. 

> ### Why Should I Run a node?

Reviewer: It should either be `Why Should I Run a Node?` or `Why should I run a node?`

> Running your own node preserves your privacy and bolster your security. It also allows you to prove that no one is manipulating the transactions in EON or changing any rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running your own node preserves your privacy and bolsters your security. It also allows you to prove that no one is manipulating the transactions in EON or changing any rules.
```

### Privacy Benefits

When you run your own node, you can create and broadcast transactions directly from the node, thereby avoid using services that might compromise private information. A node also removes the need to use a block explorer to verify the status of your transactions. Block explorers allow third parties to track your transaction history by linking it to your IP address, leaking your physical location, your balance, and your financial counterparties.

> Horizen does not collect private information. However, by providing free access to the code, Horizen cannot guarantee that the same privacy with third-party operated dApps, and in either way the statement cannot be "**trustless**".

Reviewer 2: The last sentence is a bit confusing to read. Maybe remove `that`

### Security Benefits
Using an EON node to create transactions can also improve your security by reducing or eliminating the need to expose your private keys to the internet through a web browser. The private key is required to sign the transactions before submission, while the signature generally takes place locally.

> **Note:** If you own a Validator node, you will benefit from the latest secure enclave features for key management, where the documentation of which will be shared privately. In this case, the signature takes place in a remote trusted execution environment.

Reviewer 2: `...key management, the documentation for which will be shared privately.`
